

- 原文：[Title Unavailable \| Site Unreachable](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2020/12/19/covid-19-threatens-girls-gigantic-global-gains)
- 讲解：[No.111 #教育#｜教育对女生到底多重要？\_哔哩哔哩\_bilibili](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1oy4y117kT?spm_id_from=333.788.videopod.episodes&vd_source=7f5cf2ae748c813cc5d4d6f55495312c&p=2)


FOR MUCH of human history and in many places, girls were considered property. Or, at best, **subordinate** people, required to obey their fathers until the day they had to start obeying their husbands. Few people thought it worthwhile to educate them. Even fewer imagined that a girl could grow up to govern Germany, run the IMF or invent a **vaccine**.

In most of the world that vision of girlhood now seems not merely old-fashioned but unimaginably remote. In much of the rich world parents now treat their daughters as well as they do their sons, and invest as much in their future. *In field after field* girls have caught up with boys. Globally, young women now **outnumber** young men at university. The speed of change has been **blistering**. ==Fifty years ago only 49% of primary-school-age girls in lower-middle-income countries were in school, compared with 71% of boys; today the share of both is about 90%.== In 1998 only half the world’s secondary-school-age girls were enrolled; today two-thirds are. Over the same period rates of **illiteracy** fell from one in five young women aged 15-24 to one in ten, bringing them roughly *on a par with* young men.

Girl babies are more wanted than ever before. Parents in some countries prefer them. Even in places, such as China, where the sex-selective abortion of girl **fetuses** has been **rife**, it is often becoming less so. Girls are also less likely to be married off in childhood. In 1995 almost six in ten girls in South Asia were **hitched** before reaching 18; that ratio has fallen by half. Around the world, it has fallen from one in  four to one in five.

Girls are healthier, too. Compared with the mid-1990s, they become sexually active later and are more likely to use **contraception**. Rates of teenage pregnancy have fallen by a quarter globally and by two-thirds in South Asia and North America. Girls are less likely to suffer *female genital mutilation*—and *object to* this horrific tradition more vocally. ==Whereas in 2000 just 27% of women and girls in the most-affected regions said it should be banned, today 54% do.==

When societies handle girlhood well, the **knock-on effects** are astounding. A girl who finishes secondary school is less likely to become a child bride or a teenage mother. ==Education boosts earning power and widens choices, so she is less likely to be poor or to suffer domestic abuse.== She will earn almost twice as much as a girl without schooling.

And she will pass on a **smorgasbord** of advantages to her **offspring**. She will have fewer children, and invest more in them. They will be less likely to die in **infancy**, or to grow up **stunted** physically or mentally. She will read to them more, and help them with their homework. All this means they will learn more, and earn more as adults. A recent study by *Citigroup* and Plan International estimated that, if a group of emerging economies ensured that 100% of their girls *completed* secondary school, it could lead to a lasting boost to their GDP of 10% by 2030.